AWS 2-Tier VPC Network Architecture (Linux)
Project Overview
This project demonstrates the creation of a 2-Tier AWS Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) architecture using Linux EC2 instances. The architecture focuses on security, resource isolation, and scalability—key principles in modern cloud computing. This setup enables public-facing resources to communicate securely with private backend services, ensuring a well-structured, secure cloud environment.

Architecture Diagram
(Insert a simple network architecture diagram here, showing the public and private subnets, gateways, EC2 instances, etc.)

Key Components
1. Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)
CIDR Block: 10.0.0.0/16
Provides an isolated cloud environment.
2. Subnets
Public Subnet (Frontend): Used for internet-facing resources (CIDR: 10.0.1.0/24).
Private Subnet (Backend): Secured and isolated from public access (CIDR: 10.0.2.0/24).
3. Gateways
Internet Gateway: Provides public instances with internet access.
NAT Gateway: Enables instances in the private subnet to access the internet securely for updates or outbound traffic.
4. Route Tables
Public Route Table: Associated with the public subnet, connected to the internet gateway.
Private Route Table: Linked to the private subnet and the NAT Gateway for secure internet access.
5. Security Groups
Public Security Group: Allows inbound traffic for SSH (22), HTTP (80), and HTTPS (443).
Private Security Group: Restricts access to internal communication between backend services.
6. EC2 Instances
Instance 1 (Public Subnet): A Linux instance with public IP for serving the frontend.
Instance 2 (Private Subnet): A Linux instance without public IP, securely isolated for backend processing.
Project Setup
1. Prerequisites
AWS Account with access to VPC, EC2, Internet Gateway, and NAT Gateway services.
AWS CLI and Terraform (if you're using Infrastructure as Code).
Basic knowledge of Linux commands for instance management.
2. Steps to Deploy the Architecture
Create a VPC with a 10.0.0.0/16 CIDR block.
Configure the Subnets:
Create the public subnet and associate it with an internet gateway.
Create the private subnet and associate it with a NAT gateway.
Set Up Route Tables:
Associate the public route table with the internet gateway.
Associate the private route table with the NAT gateway.
Configure Security Groups:
For the public instance: allow SSH (port 22), HTTP (port 80), and HTTPS (port 443) access.
For the private instance: restrict access, allowing only internal traffic.
Launch EC2 Instances:
Public instance with SSH access for frontend services.
Private instance with no public IP, securely accessing the internet via the NAT Gateway.
Testing:
Use the ping command on the public and private instances to validate internet connectivity.
Validation
1. Internet Connectivity (Public Instance):
On the public instance, use the following command to verify internet access:

bash
Copy code
ping google.com
A successful response indicates proper internet connectivity.

2. Outbound Access (Private Instance):
On the private instance, use the same command:

bash
Copy code
ping google.com
The success of this command ensures that the NAT Gateway is properly configured to allow outbound access for the private instance without exposing it directly to the internet.

Next Steps
In future iterations of this project, I plan to:

Integrate Auto Scaling for dynamic scaling.
Set up Elastic Load Balancing (ELB) to distribute incoming traffic.
Add a RDS Database in the private subnet for backend services.
How to Use
Feel free to clone this repository and replicate the architecture for your own AWS projects. Follow the step-by-step instructions provided to set up the VPC, subnets, and instances.

bash
Copy code
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/aws-vpc-2-tier-architecture.git
Tags
hashtag#AWS hashtag#VPC hashtag#CloudArchitecture hashtag#Networking hashtag#Linux hashtag#DevOps hashtag#InfrastructureAsCode hashtag#Security hashtag#CloudComputing

